CHAPTER IV
Let us therefore fear, lest, a promise being left us of entering into his rest, any of you
should seem to come short of it. For unto us was the gospel preached, as well as unto them.
But the word preached did not profit them, not being mixed with faith in them that heard it.
For we which have believed do enter into rest, as he said. As I have sworn in my wrath,
if they shall enter into my rest, although the works were finished from the foundation of the
world. For he spake in a certain place of the seventh day on this wise, and God did rest the
seventh day from all his works. And in this place again if they shall enter into my rest,
seeing therefore it remaineth that some must enter therein, and they to whom it was first
entered not in because of unbelief. Again he limited a certain day, saying in David,
Today after so long a time, as it is said, Today if ye will hear his voice, harden not your hearts.
For if Jesus had given them rest, then would he not afterward have spoken of another day.
There remaineth therefore a rest to the people of God. For he that is entered into his rest,
he also hath ceased from his own works, as God did from his. Let us labor therefore to enter
into that rest, lest any man fall after the same example of unbelief. For the word of God is quick
and powerful, and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the dividing asunder
of soul and spirit, and of the joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents
of the heart. Neither is there any creature that is not manifest in his sight, but all things are
naked and open unto the eyes of him with whom we have to do. Seeing then that we have a great high
priest that is passed into the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our profession.
For we have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities,
but was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin. Let us therefore come boldly
unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need.
Chapter 5 For every high priest taken from among men is ordained for men in things pertaining to
God, that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices for sins, who can have compassion on the ignorant
and on them that are out of the way, for that he himself is also compassed with infirmity.
And by reason hereof he ought, as for the people, so also for himself to offer for sins.
And no man taketh this honor unto himself, but he that is called of God, as was Aaron.
So also Christ glorified not himself to be made an high priest, but he that said unto him,
Thou art my son, today have I begotten thee. As he sayeth also in another place,
Thou art a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek, who in the days of his flesh,
when he had offered up prayers and supplications with strong crying and tears unto him that was
able to save him from death, and was heard in that he feared, though he were a son,
yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered. And, being made perfect,
he became the author of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him, called of God
and high priest after the order of Melchizedek, of whom we have many things to say, and hard
to be uttered, seeing ye are dull of hearing. For when, for the time ye ought to be teachers,
ye have need that one teach you again, which be the first principles of the oracles of God,
and are become such as have need of milk and not of strong meat. For every one that useth
milk is unskillful in the word of righteousness, for he is a babe, but strong meat belongeth to
them that are of full age, even those who by reason of use have their senses exercised
to discern both good and evil. Chapter 6
Therefore, leaving the principles of the doctrine of Christ, let us go on unto perfection,
not laying again the foundation of repentance from dead works, and of faith toward God.
Chapter 7 Of the doctrine of baptisms,
and of laying on of hands, and of resurrection of the dead,
and of eternal judgment. And this will we do, if God permit. For it is impossible for those who
were once enlightened, and have tasted of the heavenly gift, and were made partakers of the
Holy Ghost, and have tasted the good word of God, and the powers of the world to come,
if they shall fall away, to renew them again unto repentance, seeing they crucify to themselves
the Son of God afresh, and put him to an open shame. For the earth which drinketh in the rain,
that cometh oft upon it, and bringeth forth herbs, meat for them by whom it is dressed,
receiveth blessing from God. But that which beareth thorns and briars is rejected,
and is nigh unto cursing, whose end is to be burned. But beloved, we are persuaded
better things of you, and things that accompany salvation, though we thus speak. For God is not
unrighteous to forget your work, and labor of love, which ye have shewed toward his name,
in that ye have ministered to the saints, and do minister. And we desire that every one of you
do shew the same diligence to the full assurance of hope unto the end, that ye be not slothful,
but followers of them who through faith and patience inherit the promises.
For when God made promise to Abraham, because he could swear by no greater, he swear by himself,
saying, Surely blessing I will bless thee, and multiplying I will multiply thee. And so,
after he had patiently endured, he obtained the promise. For men barely swear by the greater,
and an oath for confirmation is to them an end of all strife. Where in God, willing more abundantly
to shew unto the heirs of promise the immutability of his counsel, confirmed it by an oath, that by
two immutable things, in which it was impossible for God to lie, we might have a strong consolation,
who have fled for refuge, to lay hold upon the hope set before us,
which hope we have as an anchor of the soul, both sure and steadfast, and which entereth
into that within the veil. Whither the forerunner is for us entered, even Jesus made an high priest
forever after the order of Melchizedek. End of chapters four through six.